# Serving HTML with Jinja2 and FastAPI

[Jinja2](https://jinja.palletsprojects.com/) is a powerful templating engine for Python, and [FastAPI](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/) is a modern web framework for building web applications and APIs. Combining FastAPI with Jinja2 allows you to serve dynamic HTML templates for your web applications. In this tutorial, we'll walk through the steps to serve HTML templates using Jinja2 and FastAPI.

## Table of Contents

1. [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
2. [Setting Up the Project](#setting-up-the-project)
3. [Creating HTML Templates](#creating-html-templates)
4. [Configuring Jinja2](#configuring-jinja2)
5. [Serving HTML Templates](#serving-html-templates)
6. [Passing Data to Templates](#passing-data-to-templates)
7. [Conclusion](#conclusion)

## 1. Prerequisites

Before you begin, make sure you have Python installed on your system. You'll also need to install FastAPI and Uvicorn:

```bash
pip install fastapi uvicorn
```

## 2. Setting Up the Project

Start by creating a directory for your project and navigating to it in your terminal. Inside the project directory, create a Python script (e.g., `main.py`) to write your FastAPI application.

## 3. Creating HTML Templates

In the same project directory, create a folder named `templates` to store your HTML templates. You can create an example HTML file (e.g., `index.html`) inside the `templates` folder. This will be the template you render with Jinja2.

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
<head>
    <title>FastAPI with Jinja2</title>
</head>
<body>
    <h1>Hello, {{ name }}!</h1>
</body>
</html>
```

## 4. Configuring Jinja2

To configure Jinja2 in your FastAPI application, import the necessary libraries and configure Jinja2:

```python
from fastapi import FastAPI
from fastapi.templating import Jinja2Templates

app = FastAPI()

# Configure Jinja2Templates
templates = Jinja2Templates(directory="templates")
```

In this code, we import `FastAPI` and `Jinja2Templates`. We then create a FastAPI instance and configure Jinja2Templates to use the `templates` folder.

## 5. Serving HTML Templates

To serve HTML templates using Jinja2, create a route that renders the template:

```python
from fastapi import Request

@app.get("/")
async def read_root(request: Request):
    return templates.TemplateResponse("index.html", {"request": request, "name": "Jinja2 and FastAPI"})
```

In this code, we create a route that matches the root URL ("/"). The `TemplateResponse` function is used to render the "index.html" template. We pass the `request` object and data (in this case, the `name` variable) to the template.

## 6. Passing Data to Templates

You can pass dynamic data to your templates. In this example, we pass the `name` variable to the template. You can replace this with data from your application.

## 7. Conclusion

With FastAPI and Jinja2, you can serve dynamic HTML templates for your web applications. You can expand on this example to create more complex web applications and templates.
